>> We've all heard about the
dangers we face as a result
of contaminating
our environment.
We know about air
pollution and chemicals
in our food and water.
But what if there are
other forces that impact
the quality of our health?
Forces that we cannot
see with the naked eye?
Dr. Ibrahim Karim,
founder of biogeometry,
and the managing
director of his company,
who also happens to be his
daughter, Doreya Karim,
are with us today to discuss
a revolutionary science
and design language
known as biogeometry.
Welcome, Dr. Karim, Doreya.
Thank you for coming.
So excited to get into
this conversation.
It is fascinating.
Fascinating information.
So can you tell us a little
bit about yourself, Dr. Karim?
Your history, where
you're from, what
happened to begin this
process in your life?
>> Well, I'm an
Egyptian born in Egypt.
And I went to study
in Switzerland.
I studied architecture
in Zurich,
and specialized in
tourist planning.
And then I went back
to Egypt, worked
at university and consulting
different ministries
like health, culture,
scientific research.
And while I was in
Egypt, I got introduced
to some of the ancient
Egyptian sciences,
which made me want to know
more about the relationship
between ancient
Egyptian monuments
and the energy of
the environment,
and how it affected people, and
the healing effects about it.
So that's what got my
interest in the beginning.
>> And what led you to the
information that specifically
generated what you've
developed, called biogeometry?
>> Well, I was working as
consultant to the minister
of health, and one of my
projects was the restoration
of the Museum of ancient
Egyptian medicine.
And there, I met two doctors
who were working there
and I wanted to know
more about the energy
of ancient Egyptian medicine.
I wanted to know some
scientific aspects about it.
And then they told me
about a group in France
who for some years
worked on this aspect.
But their work has
gone into oblivion.
Somehow, it got lost.
And they gave me the
names of a few books.
And somehow, next day,
the minister tells me,
Ibrahim, you have
to go to France
to sign a treaty with the
Ministry of Health Affairs.
So I go to Paris and
finish this thing.
Next day, I was on
the plane to Paris,
and then I thought, OK,
I'll go to the center
where the books are.
So I went to the center and I
finished my work in four days.
And when I went to the
center, strange things
happened from the first day.
The very old lady who
was running the center,
I asked for the books,
and they told me,
where did you get those names?
They don't exist,
those names, anymore.
I told them, from Egypt.
And they told me,
did you visit Egypt?
I said, no, I'm an Egyptian.
>> I come from there.
>> Yeah.
So the old lady who was sitting
there said, my son, come here.
And told the people there
to go in the cellar.
There's a room
that full of books.
They should bring
out all the books.
And then she told
me, look, there's
a group here for studying
the physics of energy.
And they used geometrical
ships from Egypt.
And there was a
harmful emanation
that led to the
death of one of them.
So this science was put aside,
because it couldn't handle
the dangerous Egyptian shapes.
Now the science was lost.
And it is for an Egyptian
and then engineer like you
to revise it.
You're going to
revise to revive it.
But take care, my son, of the
harmful energy aspects in this.
And I'm sure you'll
find a solution to that.
I took all those books
and then she told me
all those books are a present.
I took back full of books, and
I kept reading day and night
about the energies
of geometrical shapes
as they were in ancient Egypt.
I managed to find where the
harm is and how to avoid it.
And that led me to the first
steps into biogeometry.
>> This is fascinating
information.
I'm thrilled to hear about this.
I absolutely love ancient
Egyptian technology.
And the fact that we get
to have this conversation
thrills me today.
So I'm so looking
forward to digging
into what you've
found about working
with these shapes
and these geometries,
and sharing that
with our audience.
First, Doreya, please tell us a
little bit about yourself, too.
This must be fascinating
living inside of this world,
growing up inside
of it, et cetera.
>> Yeah, so you nailed
it right on the head.
I grew up in this world.
so I'm the youngest of four
kids and by the time I was born,
biogeometry was well on its way.
So the best thing about growing
up in this is a lot of people
go through their formal
school education,
and then they come and try to
look at this world of energy
medicine.
So imagine where basically,
you're going to school
and learning about this
stuff and then going
home, and getting, I guess, the
holistic energy aspect of it.
And it's really
neat because I don't
have to try to marry two
different world views.
To me, they're one in the same.
>> It's the world view.
>> It's a world view.
That's how it works.
It's two sides of the same coin.
So like in second grade, I
was doing an entrance exam
after moving back
from Florida to Egypt.
And I wrote about my geometry.
And I went home
my mom, was like,
no school is going to take
this girl after that paper.
I have no idea what I wrote.
And then they actually
skipped me a grade.
Actually, in my
school system, it
was encouraged to think in
this way, versus there was
no kind of clashing worldviews.
But yeah, so I graduated
with a psychology
degree and graphic design.
I continued to work
with my father.
And also finished my
consulting as a biologist.
And I've been
working with him now
for about 10 years formally.
But yeah, I grew
up with this and--
>> Well, just to let you guys
know I grew up in a household
that was all about
energy medicine.
My father was a pioneer.
I worked with him
for many years.
He's no longer with
us, but I completely
resonate with what your dynamic
is, and the fact that you're
both in this pioneering state
of mind, and as a way of living.
And I'm thrilled to dig in.
So let's do that.
>> Let's do that.
>> Let us share with everyone
what is biogeometry--
two words that people don't
normally hear stuck together.
So talk to us.
>> OK.
Biogeometry, let's
stick where we left off
with the French system,
with all the danger that
was in those energies
of Egyptian shapes.
I had to find
something that would
take them forward and make
them useful instead of harmful.
And that came out of
the energy that we've
see in earth power spots,
healing energies out
of the Earth.
And so the science called
biogeometry is three things.
Geo means earth.
Metry is the measurement
of the Earth,
is how the ancient
Egyptians surveyed the earth
to redefine their fields
after the flood every year.
Now bio is the life
energy of the Earth.
So biogeometry means
measurements of the life energy
of the Earth.
So instead of just
making measurements,
you are measuring the
life of the Earth being
of which we are a part.
>> Yes, So the life force of
this environment, this world,
this space that we're in.
>> And we define it as by
geometry is it design language
that introduces a
balance of effects,
some qualities into the subtle
energy of the environment.
The definition of biogeometry.
>> So let's think of
this design language.
Just break those words
down for our audience
so that they can follow along.
What this means,
design language.
>> Design language means
using geometrical shapes.
>> Shapes.
Yes, as a way of connecting,
as a way of furthering energy
flow.
>> Yes, but to make
it very simple.
We've all studied that
if you have a glass
prism and light goes
through it, then
it will split into
all different colors.
Now colors are qualities.
And each one has
a different angle.
So you can see that
angles are also qualities.
Now if angles are
qualities, and angles
are the components of shape,
so shapes are frozen qualities.
>> Yes.
>> So this puts you on the
first step of a design language
of shape that interacts
with qualities,
because shape is quality.
>> We call it nature's
own design language.
We like to use that term.
Because if you look
at the world and how
we communicate with
our environment,
you would look at our sensory
experiences or perceptions.
So there's shape, color,
sound, smell, touch, taste.
So the thing is, is
when you can actually
understand how these
shapes have a subtle energy
pattern behind them,
then you can actually
begin to understand how
they shape our environment.
And how these shapes shape
our environment in turn
is how our
environment shapes us.
And so if you can understand
the pattern or the language
behind it, then
what it allows you
to do-- that's why we call
it a design language--
is it allows you to shape your
built environment, to shape
any product you design.
To shape anything
from furniture to rugs
to even products of
modern technology.
You can bring in a
balancing quality to them.
>> So everything is energy
vibrating at different
frequencies.
You're managing
these frequencies
by the shapes, the containers
the environment is being
exposed to, thereby having an
influence on the environment
with structures that
you are creating
for the purpose of doing so.
Am I on it?
>> In English, the word shape
leads us to think of the shape
of things.
But in other
language, I would use
the word form, because form is
a process, is a forming process.
So at the end, the
resulting form,
it means it's a whole
evolution of shape.
>> It's evolving.
>> It's changing,
It's developing.
>> Yes, so I like to use the
word form instead of shape,
because it means a complete
forming process of things.
And when you speak
of form, that means
you are speaking on
all energy levels--
vitality, emotional,
mental, spiritual.
All those are part
of the qualities that
are in the evolution of form.
They are the life qualities.
>> A good example
of this I think,
that you also always
use, is if you look
at an architect's job--
you're going to an architect
to design a house for you.
And the purpose of
designing this house
is for you to live in.
So if you go down to
the first questions,
you would expect an
architect to ask,
how many bedrooms you need.
Oh, did you want
an open concept.
Or questions like that.
But we say if you're going
to be living in this house,
then what the first question
the architect should ask you
is, what are the qualities
of life that matter to you?
Should you be able to
talk with the architect
about the emotional energy of
the house they're designing?
>> I want it to feel relaxing.
I want it feel
stimulating and active.
In this room, we
want to be bright,
and thinking, and creative.
And in this room, we want
to chill out, and not have
to think, and then be nurtured.
>> Yeah, supported, nurtured.
And so actually, going back to
that, one of the first articles
that came out from New York and
ran in magazine on my geometry,
it was titled, "Calm."
And the reason it was titled
"Calm," was it was actually,
the editor into that
apartment and he
said that it's the first time
he saw his camera man calm.
And he said, so I know how
I'm going to explain this,
that he is now calm.
And that was the title.
>> So this influences
how energies flow,
the experience
that we then have.
And where we're headed
into this conversation
is the application of
this for someone's health,
their vitality, their
emotional state,
psychological well-being,
based upon what
we're doing with the
shape of moving energies
in certain patterns to develop
a form that is more enhancing.
>> So I like to define
architecture for an architect
as a sculpture of space.
Because you don't live in the
walls, you live in the space.
So a sculpture of space
means to sculpt or form
all the levels of that space--
vitality, emotional, mental,
and all that.
So the job of an architect
is sculpture of space.
>> Is to create the
space, a sacred space.
>> Sacred space, yes.
>> Excellent.
Excellent.
So what does biogeometry
have to do specifically
with health and healing?
How can we get right
into that conversation.
So that people can
begin to immediately see
the brilliance behind
this and how it's going
to affect them in the moment?
>> OK, like we said,
biogeometry is the life energy
of the Earth.
So now today, the
biggest problem
that you have in healing
is that modern medicine
is advancing so much and has
found cures to so many things.
But when it comes
to chronic diseases,
there, we have a problem.
Modern medicine can only
managed this ever-growing field
of disease because it cannot
find the cause of those
diseases.
Now the problem is because
the cause is somewhere else.
The cause is out there
in the environment.
So biogeometry,
if you're looking
at the Earth as a living
environmental system.
So we should look at the cause
of chronic diseases in problems
out there in that
environmental system.
Sickness exists there, that's
why you have chronic diseases.
And so biogeometry takes
to think in a holistic way.
It takes you and the
environment as one.
>> As one.
>> And then correcting
one and the other.
If you correct just
the body, isn't enough.
Connect just the
environment, isn't enough.
But correct the holistic
relationship between both,
that's our definition
of healing--
of how geometry
leads to healing.
>> A really good
example I can tell.
I always remember this.
So he, as a professor
of architecture as well,
was supervising a
biogeometry thesis.
Anyway, so to cut a long
story short, in this thesis,
it was a student who was
studying the effects of shapes
for designing a center for
people who are recovering
from addiction and depression.
And so once you presented the
thesis to my father, he said,
well, we need some
testing here, and we
need some experiments
for this to be complete.
And so he told her, you
need to take your design
to the medical department
of the university.
So of course, the medical
department picked up the phone
and said, stop sending
us your design students.
And I think the answer
was really good where
I heard him say, I will stop
sending you my design students
when they stop showing results.
>> I'm not stopping.
>> And until then, why can't you
consider that the way we design
our homes could actually be a
form of preventative medicine?
>> Sure.
>> I mean, why can't I ask
the medical team to evaluate
different houses and
different spaces for me?
I go in there,
please, diagnose me.
I go in there, please
diagnose me and tell me
where am I getting better.
So when I send you
architecture projects,
you have to acknowledge
and measure.
And it was strange asking from
a professor of architecture
to the Department of Medicine.
>> You know, you're asking
him quite a stretch here.
It's quite a stretch,
because number one--
But
>> This is where we live.
>> Yes.
They're used to
looking at things
from a symptomatic approach.
How do we treat the symptoms.
>> Yes.
>> And you're saying there's a
cause underneath the symptom.
And not only is
there a cause, it
could be that there's something
outside the human system that
is directly influencing it.
So you want to address
it from this outside
in and from the inside out.
And they probably
didn't have any idea
what you were talking about.
>> I wanted to force
them also to look--
I wanted to force medicine
to look at the environment.
>> Yeah.
Big stretch and
thank you for asking.
Thank you for asking.
So I have to ask,
what's the relationship
between biogeometry
and sacred geometry?
How does that fit
into your context?
>> Well, sacred geometry started
with the proportion of one
to 1.618.
That's what we call
the golden mean,
because people got interested
in a proportion that was
a sort of evolution, you know?
Divide the line,
the smallest part
of the larger part
equal to the largest
part of the sum of both,
and so on, and so on, so on.
So you could actually design
evolutionary systems that were
connected by one relationship.
So they took that as a
relationship of beauty.
And sacred geometry started
developing different patterns
based on that proportion.
And then they looked at
ancient architecture,
and found that
that proportion was
used in ancient architecture.
Now biogeometry
goes a bit further.
Because I want to cite
a Swiss in the 1940s
called Johann Kaiser.
He revived the ancient
sciences of musical harmonics
that extend beyond music to
cover everything in nature so
that everything was in
resonance, everything in nature
was according to a
certain proportion,
musical proportions,
and all that.
And he said that why
should architects today
think that they can build
a symphony with one note?
That means with one
proportion, when
the ancients said that
architecture was frozen music.
So it goes beyond that.
Now biogeometry is not only
interested in the proportions
of harmony and beauty.
Biogeometry reproduces
the healing energy quality
of the Earth.
So it is more geared
at quality that you
can get to through a science
of design, being in proportion,
being good just form,
being principles of design.
Many ways.
But it's a quality.
It's the state that we want
to achieve, a holistic healing
state.
That's biogeometry.
It's not something to make
beautiful designs of things
like that.
>> So the word might seem
new, but this is just really
bridging into our ancient
ancestral heritage, right?
This is as deep ancient
stuff that you're
bringing forward and bridging.
These people handed you these
pieces of information in France
about these ancient
technologies,
and you're weaving it together
in an applicable fashion.
Because of evolution,
you're able to look
at those old things and
give given modern day
application that is a healing
modality for us today.
It's brilliant.
>> You see, the cornerstone
of biogeometry is the healing
energy of the Earth.
Because we are bacteria
in the body of the Earth.
We don't live on the earth.
We live in the earth
because the atmosphere
is part of the Earth.
So acknowledging this
energy, and if the Earth
has healing energies, then why
not use those healing energies
in all our designs in order
to continue with the healing
energy of design?
So the cornerstone
of biogeometry
is actually the
healing energies we
find in certain spots
in the earth that
are called sacred power spots.
This healing energy-- and
many people do not know today,
but one of the most
important factors
in the evolution of the
history of humanity in general,
even until today,
is the power spot.
Rituals, religions,
wars, everything
has to do with power spots.
Ancient city
planning, everything
has to do with the power spot.
>> Rome, Washington, Cairo.
>> All those have their
power spots, their obelisks.
So it played a huge
role in history.
And it was a main aspect
in ancient civilization,
ancient scientists.
And today, it is
completely forgotten.
So we are losing your
relationship with power spots,
meaning losing your
relationships with the Earth.
Ending up with us
destroying the environment.
>> Yes, because we
are out of touch.
>> Yes.
>> So just to recap, there
are spots in the earth,
vortices of energy, or energies
that are emitting that are
of a unique quality.
Temples, political
affiliations, all kinds
of powerful
enhancements have been
built around or upon these
spots because of the energies
that they emit.
And what you are doing is
saying let's get back in touch
with that same energy that
was so powerful, that it
led to where the ancient
architectures were
built in the first place.
Let's tap that ourselves and
not let it be lost forever.
Let's regain, reclaim.
>> Yes.
Exactly.
>> That is beautiful.
>> And the thing about
this sacred power spots,
why we keep focusing on them
so much and talking about
the healing energy of the
Earth, is looking at it--
so I'm not a medical doctor,
he's not a medical doctor.
And even though we understand
a lot about how the body works,
one thing is a lot of
energy practices today,
whether you're an alternative
medicine or mainstream
medicine, they function
by diagnosing you.
I have to look at you and I have
to find out what's overactive,
and I have to find out
what's under active,
and give you the opposite
energy quality in simpler terms.
And that's what the work
of French [INAUDIBLE] did,
that work that he inherited
from France actually allowed him
to do.
But if you now go and look
at this architect inheriting
all of this information
on the health of the body,
and looking at the
body in ancient Egypt,
and all of these things,
there was one thing--
and this was kind of that
parallel thinking that
was the birth of my
biogeometry, is, is there
an energy that I
can expose you to,
no matter if that organ is
under active or overactive,
and it would balance that organ?
And more importantly, it
has no dosage effect at all.
So no side effects,
no interactions.
And that's what the
sacred power spot does.
It's a naturally
occurring energy.
>> Harmonizes.
>> That will harmonize
no matter the problem.
>> Beautiful.
>> I'd like to add
something here.
That in any form
of energy medicine,
it's almost the world
of duality is imbalance
that you have to
balance, that you
have to have a certain dosage
in order to balance that.
But in power spots, in
ancient temples and all that,
you could go and
stay in dish forever.
And over function
will be balanced,
and under function will be
balanced at the same time.
And you can stay there forever.
So it's a state.
It's not a balancing thing,
it's a permanent thing.
>> It's not a compensation.
We're not compensating
for something.
>> It's not compensation.
So actually, what we are doing
here, instead of using our mind
to look at dosage, we are
taking you back to Mother Earth,
and you connect with Mother
Earth, who will actually
bring you back into shape.
>> Exactly.
>> Not me, Mother Earth.
>> We call it centering.
You're at you're not on
the opposite side where
there is polarities.
You're right at the--
>> Yes.
culmination takes
care of itself.
>> My biggest title is not
my PhD or doctor's degree.
Now, my biggest title is
that now I'm a doorman.
I open the door for the
Earth's energy to come out,
and it does everything.
>> The world's greatest doorman.
OK, I gather.
I love it.
The science of geometry is
Dr. Karim's modern application
of ancient technology.
Let's take a look at the
geometry of the Giza Pyramids
and see what it has to show us.
>> If the ancient texts from
both Sumerian cuneiforms
and Egyptian books suggest
the Great Pyramid as a place
to resurrect the dead, could
there be another hidden
message?
>> There is an ancient code
to be found within the Great
Pyramid.
It's within the geometry, not
just of the pyramid itself,
but its relationship to
the other two main pyramids
of the Giza Plateau.
Having studied this
for a number of years,
it seems to be related
very much to do
with the idea of the
music of the spheres.
The idea that there is
some kind of connection
between the primal tones
of the universe itself
and their relationship to the
creation of fold and structure
in the physical world.
To somehow attune and
enhance this connection,
that certain proportions
have to be constructed
into the design of
the pyramid and also,
the geometry of the
landscape itself.
These seem to reflect
the musical intervals.
In particular, those
which are known
as the perfect fourth,
which has the ratio of 4:3,
and those though as
the perfect fifth,
has a ratio of 3:2,
one of which is
an inverse form of the other.
>> How fascinating.
You know, this is a very
deep, rich, personal interest
of mine.
In fact, I take people to
sacred sites around the world
for this very reason.
And so it's a joy to see
your application of this.
And I have my own
ideas, but I want
to hear your ideas
about what do you
think about the ancient
pyramid structures?
What is happening there?
What do they do?
>> Well, there is a very
important part here,
which has been shown individual,
about the music of the spheres.
To simplify this, if
you just take a rope
and you swing it like
this, it divides itself
after some time in
different proportions,
and then it comes back.
But it's always the
same proportions.
And the ancients took
those proportions
on a musical string, and
produced musical notes.
So actually, if wavelengths or
rope lengths divide themselves
always by the same
fractions, that
means these are the
fractions of creation,
because vibration will
keep dividing itself.
So music here, you have
managed to decipher
the mind of creation
through your musical notes
through their proportions.
Now if you used
those proportions
to build your pyramids and place
your pyramids on a sacred power
spot, now what you are doing
is connecting the energy
of the Earth with the
energy of creation,
with the whole divine mind
through the musical proportions
of shape on the
sacred power spots.
And the pyramid
itself, what it does
is actually connects the Earth
with power spots in the sky.
Because to the ancient
Egyptian, there
were power spots in
the sky that played
an important role, spiritual
power spots like Sirius,
for example.
Sirius, Orion, those places.
So the pyramid connected
the power spot of the Earth
with the power spots in the sky.
So it's connecting
several planets together
in the planetary grid.
So it's producing a
spiritual planetary grid
that it's enforcing,
anchoring it there.
>> An interdimensional
communication spot.
>> Yes, that's where the soul of
the pharaoh took the solar part
and went from the Earth, went
to Sirius, the spiritual abode.
>> We have so much to talk about
today, but you're coming back,
and we're going to have that
conversation again, my friend.
OK, so can we say more about
the power spots, Doreya?
What else can you share
with us about this
and where they are located
around the Earth, et cetera?
In South America.
Are there multiple
locations around the globe?
>> So yeah, you had mentioned
already where we find temples
and churches.
So the big thing about
many of these power spots
is a lot of them are
already marked for us.
So big you know, temples
churches, mosques, pilgrimage
sites, spiritual sites today.
Like we just mentioned
the pyramids.
But all over Egypt.
The Luxor temple, for
example, is a big one, too.
If you go to France
in Carnac, you
have all of these
menhirs erected.
If you go to Stonehenge.
So for example, if you look in
history, sacred power spots,
if you looked at
ancient man, he would
they would start by
marking these with menhirs.
Basically, these large--
think again of Stonehenge.
Large megalithic
stones that would
amplify this energy qualities.
Same thing with the pyramids.
The biggest secret
behind the pyramids
doesn't just lie in its shape.
It actually lies in where
that shape is placed.
A lot of people use
this pyramid shape.
And they understand that
it amplifies energy,
that it can have
healing properties.
But what they never
think about is
if you have a shape
that amplifies energy
and it's not on a power spot,
what are you amplifying?
You may not be amplifying
something good.
And then so we talked
about these menhirs.
From the menhir, you add
mathematical proportions
to these megalithic stones and
you get things like obelisks.
Obelisks in
Washington and Egypt,
those are placed on power spots.
And then you have what
we also call like,
dome and gate structures.
Those will be placed
on power spots.
And then you would have
either a pyramid encasing them
or a hill casing them.
But the main thing is what
is a sacred power spot?
How do you know you find
the sacred power spot?
To us, it goes back to what we
call that centering quality.
It should bring your
whole body into balance.
And the wonderful
thing about biogeometry
is it actually
gives you the tools
to find power spots near you.
A lot of times, there's
famous power spots.
And there's rituals for how
you interact with these power
spots.
And one thing I recommend is if
you ever go to any power spot,
whether you're in South
America, or Asia, or Africa,
or here in North
America, there's
usually very specific
rituals for how you interact
with these power spots.
You may have a way
that you prefer
to interact with
these power spots,
but there's wisdom in
the rituals passed down.
And so small things like
the door you enter from.
One of the biggest things
that I experienced when
he took me to the pyramids.
We were doing different
energy measurements.
And then, suddenly, he
said, let me try something.
And suddenly, the whole
energy of the pyramids
got amplified when we were
in that kings chamber.
And I was like, what did you do?
And he basically said, I
visualized those tunnels
that we created in
the pyramids, he
visualized that door to
the King's Chamber closed.
Tried to remove the obstructions
we did to that shape.
And when you got to
experience it the way
it originally was, it was a
completely different experience
as well.
>> Yes, I'm aware.
Beautiful.
So when these power spots,
these vortices of energies,
high concentration of
this subtle energy,
were originally being
allocated by ancient man,
how were they allocating them?
What was happening that
they were able to--
>> You said the word right now.
You said vortices.
And that's the magic word when
speaking about power spots.
Power spots have a sort of
a vortex like a wormhole.
And wormholes connecting
with the sky and the earth.
And what is a wormhole?
In physics, what is a wormhole?
Wormhole is something that
connects between two dimensions
or two universes or two things.
It takes you from
one to the other.
So like our black
hole, that wormhole
is connected to other universes.
So actually, when ancient men
or the first men went in there,
they were imitating animals.
Animal used to go
there for healing.
And they went there.
And once they went in
that spot, some things
happened that they
found themselves
in connection or
intercommunicating
with some form of higher beings.
And this made this place
very, very special,
because every time they went
in that, something happened.
Maybe exchange of knowledge,
maybe healing, maybe whatever.
But there, it was a
multi-dimensional relationship
at the center of
the power spots.
So imagine we are now thinking
so much in our modern science
how to connect between
different dimensions and all
that, when the ancients
were already doing that
just by being in a power
spot, you connected.
And it's this higher
connection that produces
healing on the physical level.
So this made the power
spot a place of healing,
a place of burial.
Because those beings
that you would see there,
it would help the soul.
And it made it a
place of oracles.
Like in the temples in Greece,
and Delphi, and all that,
their own power spots.
They go there to get oracles.
And so the wormhole
is the secret.
>> It's an effect you can see.
For example, when you ask
how would ancient man start
allocating these, if
you look at for example,
one of the structures in
Egypt that's very famous,
is a citadel of Cairo.
And how the site for
that was chosen is
they actually hung up fresh
meat in many different locations
in Cairo.
And the area where
this citadel was chosen
was the area where one of the
places where the meat stayed
fresh in the longest.
And so they would look at
things like how fast things
spoiled like milk.
Another one-- I mean, it's not
a famous castle or anything,
but I just thought it was
neat, I always remember it.
When I went to a
castle in Scotland,
there was this tree
that they had this fence
around in the dungeon.
And the story was that to find
the location for this castle,
there was a donkey cart
that they filled with gold.
And gold has a very
special quality.
And then they would
leave the donkey to roam.
And where he would go and
sit is where that spot
was chosen to build the castle.
Another one is the famous church
in Zurich, the Grossmunster.
That was also where Charles
the Great was chasing a stag.
Hunting a stag.
And where that stag stopped
running and just sat down,
they built the church on that.
>> This leads me to a story--
one of the stories that I like
to say a lot.
In that same church in
Zurich, in the Roman times,
two Egyptian missionaries
were preaching
Christianity in Zurich.
And the Romans arrested
them, and took them
on a place near the
rivers, and beheaded them.
Now the story goes that one
when they were beheaded,
both of them took their
heads and their arms
ran up a hill about 40 meters,
three meters high at the hill
like that, and then
collapsed at the top.
That's where they fell.
And this is where called
the Great [INAUDIBLE]
built this church.
And on the door, you see the
saints carrying their heads.
Now today we know that this is
one of the most powerful power
spots that you
have in the world.
And it seems that when they
were beheaded, their souls,
once your physical
sensors are dumbed,
then you are attracted
to the light.
So they saw the light,
carried their heads,
and somehow managed to
run up and died there.
That's really the
story that I like
to say about the sacred
power spot, but this very--
not only because
they were Egyptians.
>> Well, it's fascinating that
so much of symbology and a lot
of this in ancient Egypt, and
Osiris, and the stories there,
as well and Isis putting the
consciousness back together
again, is all about when we
get our mind out of the way,
when we get our five senses
and our head out of the way,
that we actually
can be led by the.
Soul and the donkey sitting,
where the donkey sits,
and the cathedral being
built where it is built,
for some, it might
seem like, well,
that's kind of happenstance
and coincidental.
And the naysayer
might bite into that.
But what you're
talking about is there
is a subtle energy that
if we are connected to it,
it doesn't look like
coincidence or happenstance
or just something
that is not reliable.
It looks rather quite reliable,
because we're making decisions
based on a lot more
information than what we've
been trained to think
about and perceive
with our five senses the way
that we're used to using them.
So you're connecting us
with that subtle reality.
>> One thing about biogeometry
I think it's good to add as well
as we always say that when we
talk about energy or spiritual
energy, we always
want to bridge--
there is a term a lot of people
use and we use it as well,
which is bridging--
the gap between science
and spirituality.
But we use it
differently in the sense
that we say what's
the only way to bridge
the gap between science
and spirituality?
Most people try to explain
spirituality scientifically,
and we said, OK, but what if we
look at it a bit differently,
and we look at what's the
best thing about science?
And it's the practicality.
The technology,
there's an aspect to it
that may be detrimental
to our health.
But there is an aspect
to it that is convenient,
that is improving medicine.
That is there is an
aspect to it that we
have to say is practical.
Now what about spirituality?
What does it have?
Spirituality does have
within it a balancing
or harmonizing energy.
But how do we prove that?
How can we stand in
front of that naysayer
and say, no, there
is a scientific side
to spirituality.
The way to do that is to use
spirituality practically.
And when we said a little
bit about my background
and growing up, I think that's
a little bit of something
that I learned from him that's
helped me so much in my life.
Where when you go into
this world of energy
and spirituality, and all
of these different things,
it's like, where do you start?
What do you do?
And you know he always
would say, concentrate
on those who are doing good.
Solving a problem.
And that's how you're going to
guide your way to understanding
this world.
>> Beautiful.
Operate from a
place of creativity.
>> When we think from our
outlook today about ancient
Egypt or ancient
Sumeria, all that,
we look at all that works
as symbolic or mythological.
In reality, they
were not like that.
Those people were
highly practical.
Otherwise, they wouldn't
have built a civilization
that lasted thousands of years.
So what we call
their spirituality
is actually a science that is
implemented in everyday life
to produce this harmony
that made this civilization
great for thousands of years.
So biogeometry is something
where you don't ask
me to explain something to you.
No, you ask me, come
and solve my problem.
I have an environmental problem,
solve it with biogeometry.
So in biogeometry, you
tell people, ask us to do,
not explain.
>> Demonstrate.
>> Yes.
>> Make it tangible.
>> And make it
helpful to others.
>> And going back to when we
explained that design language,
we might be thinking, OK, so
how do you actually do that?
That actually is the
cornerstone of biogeometry.
Is that the work that he
inherited, the French work,
and talked about
ancient Egypt, talked
about the effects of different
shapes of hieroglyphics
and things from ancient
Egypt, but what it actually
led to when he talked about,
how am I going to make it safe--
so he said, let me
look at the place that
is the most balancing.
And I want to
figure out how I can
find the code to this
energy, how I can find it.
And then how I can
reproduce it in shapes.
And you actually
find it in your body
as well naturally occurring.
>> We're going to get into that.
I'm looking forward to that.
You speak also about
geopathic stress, which
is what we're going
to be remedying
with some of the things
we get to get into today.
But can you just
explain, define?
>> So sacred power spots-- so
there's two things that you
find a lot with sacred power
spots in terms of being used.
So underneath the
sacred power spot,
you actually have a crossing
of underground water streams.
So you have these
water streams running
through the rocky
strata of the Earth.
And where they cross is we go
back to that vortex energy.
And it pushes water up, and
you get also that sacred power
spot.
And another term
that you find a lot
in terms of sacred
power spots being used
or in terms of good energy
it would be ley lines.
So what ley lines are
is these are actually
lines that connect
sacred power spots.
They are straight lines
connecting sacred power spots.
So ley lines are a 10%
beneficial earth energy line.
So geopathic stress is where
you would have underground water
streams.
But depending on the direction
and the type of water
that's crossing, you can
actually get a negative effect.
One that is harmful to the body.
And that is one that
you would want to avoid.
And that's what we would
call geopathic stress.
Earth radiation that is
harmful to your energy system.
>> And so by nature, the animals
would migrate away from these
spaces.
The abundance of nature
as we know it would not
be concentrated in such places.
>> Yes.
So just like we
observe, you observe
all of this thriving energy
in these positive beneficial
areas.
You would find the opposite
in areas of geopathic stress.
Now there are a few exceptions.
So cats, for example, cats will
actually be able to go to areas
where there is geopathic stress.
But they interact
with it differently
and can correct that
energy for themselves.
But geopathic stress,
the birth of this term,
or I guess that the father
of the body of work who
started this in a scientific
manner was Gustav Von Paul.
And at that time in
Europe in the early 1900s,
you had farmers who said that
they were aware of locations
where their animals would
not be thriving, where
things don't grow as easily.
And they would also
attribute these places
to-- there's actually
a term that they
would use called tree cancer.
And what Von Paul did is he
did the first systematic study
where he actually went into
several towns and in Germany.
And he mapped out
these areas where
you have these
underground water streams.
And those were correlated by
the town to cancer locations.
So he obviously didn't know
where the cancer patients were,
he was followed by an official.
And he mapped them out,
and that was correlated.
So one thing is
they came and said
that the town that he chose was
the one that had the highest
incidence of cancer.
So the study was skewed.
So he actually repeated
the study in the town
with the lowest
incidence of cancer.
And then the Berlin
Center for Cancer Research
published his work in 1960.
>> Fascinating.
>> In general, most of those
works have shown that about 80%
of the cancers are found
on 10% of the area.
That means it's location linked.
>> It's all right there, right?
>> Yeah.
Sometimes, you can move
a bed by maybe three feet
and the person's life changes
from reoccuring cancer
to complete healing.
>> So now of course,
everyone's wondering, oh no,
what if my bed's in the
wrong place, how do I know?
What if I'm living near one
of these spots, what do I do?
It's a consideration
that we have to speak to.
How do we keep people
calm, keep them
from running around and
being afraid that they're
in a negative environment
that's causing--
>> Now we have simple solutions
in biogeometry to address that
that we call home kits.
>> I look forward to
plugging into that.
Because I know people are
going to want to know.
They're perking up.
So for decades, scientists
have studied and utilized
electromagnetic energy.
But what about subtle energy?
This is a powerful
but mysterious force
that impacts our
bodies, our planet,
and the entire universe.
Take a look.
>> What is the difference
between the electric force
and the subtle force?
>> I think it's good to make the
distinction here when we talk
about what's working at a
particular scale, at our scale,
the signaling is
the same as gravity.
It's a subtle force.
It's one that no one has
been able to measure.
And yet we seem to know that
it's there, the phenomena that
have been discovered.
And the effect of
interference with that field
have been tested, and
it's known that it works.
The problem is
that there has been
no understanding of the physical
nature of what's going on.
So the biological field
is a subtle thing.
It's not like plasma directions,
which are electrical.
The electric force is far
more powerful than gravity.
And so electromagnetism
is far more
powerful than the signaling
system used in biology.
However, it does raise the
issue that the actual activity
inside the cells in
the body is electrical.
So even though this
subtle signaling
can be a control
mechanism, it is
possible to understand that
electromagnetic radiation can
have effects that
are not expected
and not understood in
the conventional sense.
>> Let's just recap
this, all right?
What we're inferring
here is that there
is an energy more subtle
than electromagnetic energy.
And this is one of
the things that I've
been working with
people and teaching them
how to find that and
identify within themselves,
so that we can have an ultimate
harmonizing and healing
effect on our own systems.
And this is what
you're working with.
You're working
with an energy that
is more subtle than
electromagnetic energy.
So can you share with us how
that relates specifically
to biogeometry?
>> OK.
Subtle energy is
not electromagnetic,
as we've seen in the film.
It's not electromagnetic energy.
Now, the difference between
the electromagnetic energy
that is part of our
life force that we
get from the Earth that
is very positive for us
and for our life, and the
harmful electromagnetic energy
that we have there is that the
electric energy of the Earth
is on the subtle energy level.
It's a totally
different type of energy
than electromagnetic energy.
And being subtle energy
level and means--
subtle energy comprises
many dimensions.
It comprises
vitality dimensions,
emotional dimensions,
mental dimensions.
All this is part
of subtle energy.
So when you're working
with subtle energy,
you're working on
all those levels.
And if you do not address the
emotional and mental levels
in a human being, you can
never achieve holistic healing.
So subtle energy is something
that's not electromagnetic.
Does not follow the
laws of time and space.
Is not bound by them.
That means certain energy can
move in different dimensions.
It can move forwards
and passed in time.
It can move faster than
the speed of light.
It can enter into
resonance with anything
in the universe irrelevant
of time and distance.
So it's a fantastic
domain, this subtle energy.
And all our biological functions
and all the laws of nature
are within this domain
of subtle energy.
>> In deep spiritual study, they
would call that God presence,
because it's omnipresent.
It's the energy that is
foundational to every single
aspect of life itself.
And so we are bridging
the worlds right here.
Speaking about an energy,
an invisible energy
that is everywhere all
the time, unwavering.
And in the world
of spirituality,
we would call that the divine.
And the world of
science, we'd call it
invisible subtle energy, right?
So we're speaking
one language now
that is allowing both
worlds to be right,
both worlds to be true, and both
of them to be interconnected.
>> The definition that we use
to marry both worlds is we
actually use the definition of
what is energy before we divide
it into its different forms?
We say energy is the ability
to produce an effect.
And suddenly, yes, gravity,
know electromechanical energy,
that's all part of.
That but your emotions, your
thoughts, your spirituality,
does it have an ability
to produce an effect?
Yes.
Is it trapped within
time and space?
No.
You can think about the past,
you can move into the future.
The wonderful thing
is we actually
have so many
experiments with this
where you can begin to affect
the present by even changing--
and anybody would
know that you could
affect the past by changing
the way you look at the past.
>> Yes.
>> And that's the
realm of subtle energy.
You've just moved back
in time and you're
affecting the present.
>> We're not confined
to this physical world,
stimulus response
in a linear fashion.
No longer.
Now we are in this quantum
world is really what you're--
>> An important thing when
you spoke about divinity.
Well, divinity is not
an abstract thing.
We should know that divinity
controls all energy effects.
And actually, divinity can be
put into every practical thing
we do in our life.
Divinity has a part at its core
to harmonize it, to balance it.
So divinity here is
not something out there
that you believe in.
No, divinity is
a real thing that
has practical applications.
That's why in
biogeometry, I feel
the satisfaction of
sneaking spirituality
through the back door.
>> I do the same thing.
Slide it in.
There it is.
I get it.
We have covered so
much ground here today
from the fundamentals
of biogeometry
to how to change your
life with subtle energy.
And we have barely
scratched the surface.
Join us in part two with Dr.
Ibrahim Karim and his daughter,
Doreya Karim, to hear why
the government of Switzerland
sought bio geometry to help
to save their communities
from harmful electro smog.
You can learn more about
Doreya and Ibrahim Karim
at biogeometry.ca.
Thank you for watching
"Healing Matrix,"
and be sure to look for
part two of this episode.